To do Gaussian mixture model clustering in two dimensions,
we'll need to a little bit of setup.
So, assume we have two classes of students,
2016 class and 2017 class.
And they have different set of scores for the two tests, kind of like this.
So each of these on its own is a multivariate Gaussian distribution.
This one, however, is a little bit rotated but it's
still a Gaussian distribution in two dimensions.
Now, say that hackers broke into the school's systems,
and removed the labels of these points,
effectively mixing the two datasets like this,
with no way to retrieve the original labels.
And so, we ended up with this dataset that does not follow a Gaussian distribution,
but we know that it's made up of two separate Gaussian distributions.
These are reasonable conditions for us to do
Gaussian mixture model clustering to try to
retrieve the original two Gaussian distributions.